what if one day you woke up and you
couldn't access your money you came here
for the truth so let me unveil that for
you today we're going to talk about that
a bank holiday you've seen it before in
history yes of course it could happen
again remember how Banks work they have
to keep a very small percentage in
reserves which actually right now in the
United States is 0% but typically they
would only have to keep a small amount
and they can loan out the rest and this
allows them to maximize their gains but
what happens when a small percentage of
people start to pull their money out
they call that a bank run and when that
occurs in the digital realm it can
happen virtually instantaneously and
cause chaos in the financial system well
this is happening right now and it's
going to get worse let's begin right
here we're going to talk about the bank
holiday no not an old movie but what we
see now let's start with this though
banks are dumping more customers without
any warning a new investigation shows
how a surge in SARS notifications has
led Banks to abruptly cut off clients
what is that all about well here the New
York Times started doing this
investigation and found essentially that
in individuals can't pay their bills on
time when the institutions close their
credit cards their credit scores can
suffer and upon cancellation small
businesses often struggle to make
payroll and must explain to the vendors
and partners that they don't have a bank
account for the time being this is a
suspicious activity report they can't do
what they need to do because that bank
decided that they should not be given
access to their money remember it's
their
money and this goes far beyond that why
can you not access what is truly yours
is it because you're suspicious is it
because of your activity or could it be
just possibly that they didn't like what
you did they didn't like something you
said or maybe it's just a
mistake maybe you have the same name as
somebody else who did something that
they shouldn't have either way you don't
have access to your money and maybe it's
an emergency and you really do need it
right now and you can't get it well this
is going to become more and more common
the further we move into the cashless
society and to me this is outrageous
that we have given so much control to
these institutions the way it worked
before was that you would have your gold
and you wanted to get a paper note from
that you would bring your gold in and
then you can get your paper back because
it's easier to deal with the paper and
the bank would simply hold that for you
and everything was all good everything
was normal but they changed that and
they said look we're going to do away
with the gold it's just going to be
paper and in fact it's going to say
Federal Reserve note on it it has
nothing to do with the government
anymore and this private institution is
going to take care of the whole
thing that's a problem right uh that's
kind of an issue so we can see how this
has been over the last while and it is
not positive because
these type of events do occur this is
just one talking about the bank run that
helped create the Great Depression so we
can get into that we can look at this
over time bank runs can create chaos in
fact so much so that it can unravel the
financial system what about svb Silicon
Valley Bank where this one institution
was kind of central but there were
several others during that time started
to fail a bank run started to you know
put pressure on the bank they couldn't
keep up with it and they had some
problems but it was you know fueled and
and um let's just say you know became
much worse than what it could have been
because why people were overreacting to
the news of oh no my deposits are not
going to be safe give me my money and so
they went in took everything they could
even though the FDIC they would have
been bailed out perhaps there would have
been no issue but people deserve their
money and so they went there and said
I'm going to go and get it and so they
they did and it caused the crisis that
was in 20123 you didn't have to look
back a 100 years ago these events still
do happen in fact they happen more than
you would think but understand that what
we're talking about is a multifaceted
approach to the control of the financial
system you can't do this overnight and
it can't be done with one institution
and it needs to be discussed in depth
this is one other aspect several major
US Banks on Friday experienced outages
caused by a processing issue that led to
deposit delays for customers Bank of
America Wells Fargo Chase uh truest and
US Bank were among the institutions
affected and this affected AC which of
course is uh you know your your um
online
transfers hey is anyone else having
issues with your direct deposit
apparently the FED a Clearing House
servers went down and nobody was
notified and there you can go there you
can see it right there at the bottom how
many people were dealing with
that we have Bank closures this is the
first Iowa Bank closure since 2011 you
may have heard of it Citizens Bank look
it almost made it to its 100y old
birthday and then it then it failed uh
these things are happening look it's not
a big Bank okay Bank reported $65
million in assets but it's still
significant okay I know a lot of uh
YouTubers using it as a clickbait um
it's not a big Bank okay but it still
shows us that there are banks that are
failing you got to understand this I'll
show you in a second here how many banks
have actually failed I'll give you the
whole list if you're interested in
checking that out there's a big list a
long list of banks that have failed now
a lot of those happened during the
financial crisis and all the way into
2011 so you start asking the question so
what so what right well what do we have
here we have more and more control from
these Financial establishments look at
what happened during the financial
crisis it was pretty clear that there
was a lot of you know under the table
dealings that it was kind of okay I'm
not going to look at that ninja loans
okay let's just pretend that that's okay
even though clearly it's not the rating
agencies turned the other way everybody
involved was complicit they all knew
there was a problem but as long as
everybody just shut up that this could
continue for more and more and more who
knows when that would be a problem but
as long as we just shut up right now
we'll be able to you know keep this
thing going everybody was making money
and then we had one after the other
after the other start to fall you got to
realize right now that these
establishments operate on the notion
that
a bubble can form and we don't need to
worry that that's really what they do
these institutions need that because
they also throwing their cash at it they
want profit they cannot look at two
years into the future they look at most
a quarter the next quarter that's it
that's where they go so you have a
central bank that enables all of this
you keep interest rates people you know
the the Articles the analysts the
YouTubers they will point to you know
what has happened right now oh oh no the
the Federal Reserve is Raising interest
rates and that's such a problem they
need to cut right away are we going to
ignore the fact that they kept interest
rates super low for super long and that
created the problem in the first place I
mean we can keep going back Cycles after
Cycles after cycles and realize it's
only gotten worse but let's just take it
from the financial crisis you can see
how these problems unfold and it is very
clear to me what has happened the
banking system is not safe your money is
not safe in it yeah we need to use it we
need to transact internationally I
spread my money around different banks
when I need to transact internationally
with different institutions because I'm
bringing money in from different places
you got to use these but do I want to
keep savings there absolutely not I want
to make those savings work for me and I
want to invest in real assets that could
be something like precious metals that
could be be real estate that could be
something tangible like a business in a
business you have inventory potentially
the business itself you have IP you have
everything that could benefit you there
potentially and that is a real good you
we're not talking about something that
is nonsense that's in the air that might
be something at a later date no we want
the real Goods we have control that's
the point we have control over it and
this world that we are in right now we
have so little control we're we're
giving up that control we're seeding
control to these institutions by putting
our money with them by giving them
everything and yet we need to be going
in the opposite direction take more
control that's my message to you okay
this is uh just talking further uh about
that particular bank that failed you
could see the list for yourself failed
Bank list go through it and you will see
um if they have it here
568 banks that have failed in the US 568
Banks and that's not other institutions
that that's just the banks this is from
the fdic's website so you can check that
out over and over again we do see this
and it's It's Not Unusual necessarily to
see a bank fail but why why are they
failing and what does that mean to you
if you didn't have your money with that
bank you know you may say well who cares
but understand what's going on there's a
big problem right now in the financial
industry and that was because they kept
interest rates too low for too long if
you want more details you got to go over
to my website the money gps.com the link
will be in the description and you can
check out Compass if you would like if
you want to take advantage of what's
Happening Here of course I have my small
Zoom classes that I do and you can get
in on that the link in the description
under the mentorship mentorship link
you'll see there if you want to check
that out as well Compass is totally free
there's no cost for that the money
gps.com then we have of course the
comment of the day I love your comments
Mark had this to say I can remember when
a bag of potato chips was actually 16 o
and now you're lucky if you get
9.75 Oz look at what's happening to the
value of your money it's being degraded
it's being
dissolved that's the world we live in
right now and I hope that things will
change we need to do what we can today
if you appreciate this message hit that
thumbs up button when you do you're
supporting me you're basically telling
the algorithm like this is good stuff if
you don't have any family members
co-workers or things you want to share
with at least hitting that thumbs up
does support the Channel I want to bring
you the latest and greatest I want to
bring you the hard hitting information
and I need your help so thank you very
much and I'll see you tomorrow take care